What happens when you initialize a repository?

A new git repository is created. A hidden folder named .git is added which contains the required files for version history.

Why do you need to do it?

Without a repository, git cannot do anything. Git only tracks files in the repository.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?

Staging area is the intermediary link between working directory and the repository. It contains the files that are selected to be commited to the repository.
The files are not yet in the repository so addition or removal of files from the staging area can still be made (before commit).

What value do you think it offers?

The option to create your set of files which you want to commit without having to add all new files. 
This way you have the option to make a split based on logical functionality

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

The staging area allows the flexibility to select which files are to be commited. This allows only files that are affected by a logical change to be commited at a time.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? 

Work on conflicting changes, trying out new features, large code refactoring etc.

How would branches help?

It allows concerns to be split. A programmer has more confidence to make big changes or test new things in a new branch with the safety of a fallback to master branch if anything goes south.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

It allows us to see which commits are attached to a branch and the commits that are ignored by a branch.

What is the result of merging two branches together?

The result is one branch with changes from both branches.

Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

After a merge, all commits will be shown based on the timestamp in git log. This will show the commits from the two different branches running through each other.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Automatic merging saves a lot of time compared to doing merges manually. 

Commands:

git add  |    Add a file to the staging area
git commit  |    Commit the files from the staging area to the repository 
git status  |    Show which files are in the staging area, and which files from the working directory are not part of the repository    
git diff  |    Git diff without arguments is comparing the working directory with the staging area
git diff --staged  |    Compare the staging area with the repository
git reset --hard  |    Undo all changes! There is no rollback for this, so be carefull!
git checkout master  |    Restore the "Head" to the latest check-in (this will be part of a later lesson/module)
git log --graph --oneline <branch1> <branch2>  |    Show a visual representation of the commit history within different branches
git checkout -b new_branch_name  |    Creates a new branch and do a checkout on this branch in one call instead of git branch new_branch_name and git checkout new_branch_name
git merge branch1 branch2  |    Merge two branches, branch2 get merged into branch1
git branch -d name  |    Remove the branch with the specified name
git show commitId  |    Show the changes made in this commit compared to the previous version. This is working even after merging.